---
title: "Bloggy Blog 12 - Being a True Millenial"
slug: bloggy-blog-12-being-true-millenial
date: 2023-08-12T00:00:00-07:00
tags:
- general
---
I don't often do things that might be stereotypically considered "millenial", especially by Bay Area standards. Some of that is probably growing up in suburban Oklahoma, some of that is nerdy interests that lie elsewhere, and some of that is living a hermit life until very late. But, today, that trend was bucked not once, but twice.

We began the morning by packing the sleeping wee baby up and heading downtown to the farmers market that's put on every weekend. Kayla had gone to one in a neighboring city last weekend with a friend, so thought it'd be a fun activity to do as a fambly. It's summer and summer is mojito season, so I was on the lookout for fresh fruits to put in cocktails. We tried a variety of things, mostly berries and peaches... which, incidentally, is what I wound up buying. Peaches and lemons for some peach bourbon smashes, and various berries for tossing into mojitos (blueberries, black berries, and raspberries). We also wound up grabbing some veggies for philly cheese steaks this week. It was a crowded situation, especially with a chonky stroller, and I wasn't much for listening to people's sales pitches, but you're definitely not going to find better fruit anywhere else. We've added "visit five local farmers markets" to The List, so others will definitely be hit (not SF; we already checked that one off a long time ago).

That evening, we went to ShaKa Brewing, a local hole-in-the-side-of-a-warehouse brewery that sports a rotating list of food trucks. We'd been eyeing this place for a while, mostly waiting for the karaage chicken truck to show up. We had skipped their previous appearance at the brewery due to the Taylor Swift concert, a cultural event that strained the local economy. While we grazed on delicious fried chicken skewers and potato croquettes, I enjoyed a flight of the brewery's best selection, which was chosen for me by one of the owners of the brewery (super nice dude who's birthday is the day after mine). We crashed a hightop table iinside the building, which really _was_ just their brewing warehouse that had tables, chairs, and even a couple couches and games on one side. I'm not 100% sure the reason, but they even had two bamboo trees with tied up with tanzaku for tanabata. Overall, it was a pretty chill experience and we're planning on hitting them up more and trying out some of the other food places that come to camp.

These are the kinds of things that I've wanted to do more of since my time here, but haven't for various reasons, be it not wanting to go by myself or everything being shuttered up due to a global pandemic. Maybe this is where we can start turning that around.
