---
title: "Perhaps some dusting is required"
slug: perhaps-some-dusting-is-required
date: 2009-01-20T03:33:36-06:00
tags:
- anime
- general
- school
---
It's been quite some time since I last graced the interwebs with my esoteric writings. Much has happened since then and, on the flip side, much _hasn't_ happened since then. Hell I don't even remember what the last thing I wrote _was_. But, no matter. That's why God invented tabbed browsing.

Going back over some of my more recent posts, it seems that I made some sort of attempt to be more... professional. That is, I attempted to be a help to the community at large, injecting into it my insights and examples. However, after some recent soul searching over break, I realize that this is not who I am, nor is it who I wish to be. I simply wish to be myself and for my blog to continue on much the way it has for so many years. That is to say, contain the trials, tribulations, and joys of my life. So, with so much time to catch up on, where does one begin? I suppose it's best to find out where one left off...

I suppose the last _meaningful_ post was about the [anime festival](http://www.dxprog.com/entry/from-the-orlando-anime-festival/) I attended in August. Now, back then I felt like an outcast amidst a lot of freaks (in a good way, however). But, since then, I too have fallen victim to the Japanese and tantalizing animations. I suppose the beginning of my downfall was when I picked up and was subsequently sucked into the Phoenix Wright games. It didn't help that I was prodded along the way by a buddy of mine (who will be called Ryan for lack of a made up name). He showed to me Hellsing, an anime about some vampire killing organization, the Catholic Church, and nazis. As crazy awesome as this combination may sound, vampires and the occult really aren't my forte. So, he pushed me towards Dragon Ball Z, which, I must admit, is not only awesome, but totally over nine thousand. From there I ventured out on my own checking out anime on Netflix's instant watch (Project A-ko and Best Student Council). My biggest pitfall was when Hulu picked up Naruto. Everybody and their chibis seemed to be completely enamoured with this show and, even though I'd previously shunned it as I had all anime, I watched an episode. And another. Two weeks later and not only had I watch one hundred twenty episodes, but I'd also read all the manga after the point I'd left off. I've also watched and completed Lucky Star (all the dubbed versions, at least) and the Meloncholoy of Haruhi Suzumiya. So, I can no longer consider myself the portent of anime's destruction (as I once wanted to be). Instead, I am a lowly otaku. Damn.

School-wise, nothing terribly interesting has happened. I've completed all my film courses, made a level for UT3, created a magazine and TV packaging, and now I'm back to web design. How I hate you, web design. Web programming, that's okay. I enjoy programming, However, I'm beginning to realize how much I don't enjoy actual design. The process of coming up with some idea out of nothing is one I find very difficult (though, I usually execute it fairly well). However, with programming I know what I'm trying to achieve and the steps to get there a fairly linear and even allow for a good bit of problem solving which I do love. That said, I still enjoy film making and motion graphics.

The good news about school is that I've got less than half a year left until graduation. I'm not entirely certain what I'll do after that. One thing I _do_ know is that I'll be heading back home for a couple months to simply do nothing. Full Sail, while it hasn't been _terribly_ difficult has left me drained of nearly every creative juice in my body as well as killed off almost all of my motivation. That can be attributed to the fast pace of the scheduling where every month I have to design my way out of another two classes. I've enjoyed my time here, but I'll also be glad when it ends. It means I get to go on and do something awesome (hopefully VFX, programming, or motion graphics).

Other than that nothing very exciting has happened to me. It's all school and what play there is generally involves me sitting on my ass in front of this computer monitor surfing the nets or whatever recent project has caught my fancy. I promise that I won't let another agonizing two months go by before I update again, but with nothing happening it's hard to find something to write about. Perhaps you should follow me on [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/dxprog) for all the little random things and thoughts of mine. Until next time, be cool and stay in school.
