---
title: "PHP Google Image Search Library"
slug: php-google-image-search-library
date: 2011-01-30T00:00:00-06:00
tags:
- api
- code
- php
- release
---
Github Repository: [Fork It!](https://github.com/dxprog/PHPGIS)
Code: [ [Download](http://dxprog.com/files/gis.zip) ]
Demo: [ [Try it out](http://labs.dxprog.com/gis/) ]

**EDIT 2012-05-31:** I have updated the code to work with the latest source generated by Google Images, so it works again. Being that this is a scraper, I cannot make an guarantees that it will continue to operate correctly in the future. If you see any issues, let me know and I will do my best to patch accordingly.

Sometime ago, I found myself wanting to be able to programatically perform a Google image search (it was for album art on the music page). As Google does not provide an API for backend scripting, I wrote a quick scraper that does the job quite nicely. Hit the break for info on how to use this.[break]

[code=php]
include ('gis.php');
$results = googleImageSearch('chobits');
print_r($results);
[/code]

Here's the function prototype:
[code=php]
googleImageSearch($query, $page = 1, $size = GIS_ANY, $type = GIS_ANY);
[/code]

This returns an array of stdObject with the following properties:
[list][item]**resultLink** - Link to Google image result. This is the page that displays when you click a result through normal image search[/item][item]**source** - URL of the source image[/item][item]**title** - Title associated with the image[/item][item]**width** - Width of the image[/item][item]**height** - Height of the image[/item][item]**size** - Size of the image[/item][item]**type** - Format of the image (jpg, png, etc)[/item][item]**domain** - Domain of source image[/item][item]**thumb** - stdObject with information on Google's thumbnail of the image. Properties are:[/item][item]**thumb->src** - URL to the thumbnail[/item][item]**thumb->width** - Width of the thumbnail[/item][item]**thumb->height** - Height of the thumbnail[/item][/list]

Size constants are (all fairly self-explanatory):
[list][item]GIS_LARGE[/item][item]GIS_MEDIUM[/item][item]GIS_SMALL[/item][/list]

And constants for type:
[list][item]GIS_FACE[/item][item]GIS_PHOTO[/item][item]GIS_CLIPART[/item][item]GIS_LINEART[/item][/list]

If you have any comments, questions or issues with this code, just leave a comment below and I'll do my best to help you!
